.TH "ggz-txt" "6" "0.0.14" "The GGZ Development Team" "GGZ Gaming Zone"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
ggz-txt \- Console-based core client for the GGZ Gaming Zone
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.B ggz-txt
[\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fIURI\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
This program allows one to use the GGZ without having a graphics
facility like the X11 window system.
It provides all the functionality which is needed to chat, change
rooms, view the message of the day (MOTD), and so on, and even supports
games depending on where it runs.
.LP
When starting \fBggz-txt\fR, simply type "/connect", optionally followed
by the server host name if not running at localhost.
Alternatively, the connection URI can be given as a command line argument in
the format \fIggz://user@host:port\fR or a variant thereof, even simply
\fIhost\fR.
.LP
You can always type "/help" to get a list of all available commands.
If support for \fBreadline\fR has been compiled in, the arrow keys can be
used to navigate through former commands.
Some commands can automatically be executed on program launch, allowing
sequences such as identifying and changing rooms automatically.
.LP
Further information is available in the \fIManual for ggz-txt\fR,
which is contained in the ggz-docs package.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display program version.
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--reverse\fR
Start with alternative color scheme for reverse displays (like xterm).
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Display some information.
.LP
.SH "FILES"
.TP
\fI~/.ggz/ggz-txt.startup\fR - startup command sequence
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The GGZ Development Team
<ggz\-dev@mail.ggzgamingzone.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
ggz(7)
