.TH "ggzduedit" "6" "0.0.14" "The GGZ Development Team" "GGZ Gaming Zone"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
ggzduedit \- User management tool for the GGZ Gaming Zone server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.B ggzduedit
[\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
The tool \fBggzduedit\fR, which is an abbreviation of User Editor,
provides access to the database of the GGZ server, \fBggzd\fR.
It can be used to view the list of currently registered users,
as well as add new ones or delete some registrations.
The options allow to pass the database connection options or file
locations to \fBggzduedit\fR, for example in the presence of multiple
instances of the server.
Usually however, the server database configuration can be read in by
the tool from the file \fIggzd.conf\fR, so no command line options are
required.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--datadir=\fR\fIDATADIR\fR
The data directory where the local database files is located.
This options is used for \fBggzd\fR installations which are configured
to use \fBlibdb\fR (2/3/4) or \fBsqlite\fR as their database backend.
.TP
\fB-D\fR, \fB--dbname=\fR\fIDBNAME\fR
Name of the database.
This option is for SQL database backends.
.TP
\fB-H\fR, \fB--host=\fR\fIHOST\fR
Name of the host the database server runs on.
This option is for SQL database backends.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--username=\fR\fIUSERNAME\fR
Username which is used for the connection.
This option is for SQL database backends.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--password=\fR[\fIPASSWORD\fR]
Password corresponding to the user. It is strongly recommended
to leave out \fIPASSWORD\fR and let \fBggzduedit\fR request
it interactively.
This option is for SQL database backends.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Display command line option help and exit.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the version number of the utility.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/var/ggzd/player.db\fP - player registry
.LP
\fI/etc/ggzd/ggzd.conf\fP - ggzd SQL database server configuration
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
The GGZ Development Team
<ggz\-dev@mail.ggzgamingzone.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ggzd(6), ggz(7)
