.TH "grubby" "6" "0.0.14" "The GGZ Development Team" "GGZ Gaming Zone"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
grubby \- very intelligent GGZ chat bot
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B grubby
[\fIOPTIONS\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
\fBGrubby\fR is a modular chat bot, which means this program behaves like a human.
Once logged into a GGZ server, you can tell it some news it shall tell
others, and in return it tells you what it has heard of lately.
Additionally, if you say a bad word, it complains about it.
You can even rename \fBgrubby\fR to what you want. Common names are
Highlander and Keeper, but you can invent your own ones.
More functionality can be added by plugging in shared libraries, perl scripts,
ruby gems, and whatnot.
From time to time it is recommended to invite \fBgrubby\fR to play a game with you.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Display help menu and exit.
.TP
\fB-H\fR, \fB--host\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
Host to connect to. A GGZ server must be running on \fIHOSTNAME\fR.
This overrides any setting from the default configuration file.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--datadir\fR=\fIDATADIR\fR
Use this directory as data directory. If not specified, \fIDATADIR\fR defaults
to ~/.ggz.
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--name\fR=\fINAME\fR
Name with which grubby interacts with other players. This overrides any
setting from the default configuration file.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display grubby's version number and exit.
.LP
.SH "COMMANDS"
.LP
Grubby accepts both public commands and owner commands. Please view the
appropriate documentation in the ggz-docs package. In particular,
the \fIGrubby Chatbot Manual\fR contains information for grubby users,
whereas the \fIGrubby Chatbot Admin Manual\fR tells grubby owners how
to tailor the set of commands.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.LP
Configure grubby using the \fBgrubby-config\fR perl script. Except for the
first two values (name and owner), all other values can simply be taken
from the default suggestions.
.LP
Graphical configuration is possible using \fBkgrubby\fR, which is
available as part of the ggz-kde-client package.
.SH "FILES"
.LP
\fI~/.ggz/grubby.rc\fP - configuration file, may be produced by
\fBgrubby-config\fR or by \fBkgrubby\fR
.LP
\fI~/.ggz/grubby/*\fP - individual module files and player database
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The GGZ Development Team
<ggz\-dev@mail.ggzgamingzone.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
grubby-config(1), kgrubby(1), ggz(7)
