.TH "ggzboard" "6" "0.0.14" "The GGZ Development Team" "GGZ Gaming Zone"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
ggzboard \- Board games container for the GGZ Gaming Zone
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
The GGZBoard games collection, invoked with the \fBggzboard\fP command,
contains various board games which can be either played against local
AI players or against network opponents, or even both.
When running without options, a selection menu for local games will
appear. Otherwise, a game name might be given to directly launch a
specific game.
Games and graphics themes may be updated over the Internet, using the
Get Hot New Stuff functionality integrated into the games container.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-game=\fR\fIGAMENAME\fR
Instead of providing the intro screen with the game selection dialog,
launch a game directly, which is specified by GAMENAME.
Games can be either installed with GGZBoard, or invoked from the
dynamic updates directory in ~/.ggz/games/ggzboard.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
List all available GGZBoard games, including their installation positions,
for further use with the --game option.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fullscreen\fR
Runs GGZBoard in fullscreen mode. Note that the mode can always be
toggled during the run by pressing the F key.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-ggz\fR
Runs GGZBoard in GGZ mode, meaning that it will try to connect to a
GGZ core client and subsequently to the GGZ server. This is an internally
used option!
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Displays the version number of GGZBoard.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Output of a summary of available command line options.
.SH "GAMES"
.LP
\fICheckers\fP
is a 2 player game in which the players have to jump over their
opponents' pieces on a chess-like board in order to win.
Call \fBggzboard checkers\fP to run it directly.
.LP
\fIChess\fP
is a 2 player game with complex strategy rules. The 8x8 squares
board is basically the same as used for Checkers.
Call \fBggzboard chess\fP to run it directly.
Note: This implementation uses the GGZ Chess AI engine.
.LP
\fIGo\fP
is a 2 player game played on boards of various sizes. It does
remotely resemble the Reversi game.
Call \fBggzboard go\fP to run it directly.
Note: This implementation uses the GNU Go AI engine.
.LP
\fIHnefatafl\fP
is a 2 player game with asymmetric roles: One player is the
defender, the other one the attacker.
Call \fBggzboard hnefatafl\fP to run it directly.
.LP
\fIReversi\fP
is a 2 player game played on a board not dissimilar to the one
of Go.
Call \fBggzboard reversi\fP to run it directly.
.LP
\fILudo\fP
is a 2-4 player game. The game board is shaped so that each of the
four pieces of each player must traverse one path around the center
in order to reach its destination. Moves are determined by throwing
dice.
Call \fBggzboard ludo\fP to run it directly.
Note that Ludo is currently only supported in single-player mode.
.LP
\fIConnectX\fP
is a game also known as 4 Wins. Pieces are dropped into columns of
the board and will fall into the most bottom row possible of that
column, that is, on top of all other pieces already in that column.
The player who gets 4 pieces into one row, in either direction, wins.
Call \fBggzboard connectx\fP to run it directly.
.LP
\fIArimaa\fP
is a chess-like game with animals, and is known to be easy to play, yet
hard to grok for computer players. As special features, it has four traps
on the game board, and allows for push and pull operations on neighbouring
animals depending on their strength.
Call \fBggzboard arimaa\fP to run it directly.
Note that the Arimaa game module is currently distributed as an external
package, it can be installed via the dynamic game update button.
.LP
\fIShogi\fP
is a Japanese chess game which is played on a 9x9 board. As opposed to chess,
captured pieces change ownership and can be placed on free cells of the board
later, which makes the game more fluid.
Call \fBggzboard shogi\fP to run it directly.
Note: This implementation uses the GNU Shogi AI engine.
.SH "FILES"
.LP
\fI~/.ggz/games/ggzboard/\fP - dynamic game updates and theme packages
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The GGZ Development Team
<ggz\-dev@mail.ggzgamingzone.org>
