There are so many things left to do to make this a truly professional release.
This file is a record of all the things that I can think of that need to be done.


Core Client
===========
Add a private chat window so that two players can have a private conversation.
Currently the only way to do this is to use the /msg command.

Add some board games, Reversi, Chess and Checkers are good candidates. 
Backgammon has also been requested but we also need a server for that.

Add support for launching non-java games (i.e. implement new Mod that supports
sockets)

Add support for launching Java games from non-Java core client.

Support chat buffer size properly so that we don't send too big a message 
after encoding to UTF-8.

Seat reservation dialog allows to select all computer players but the server 
complains with bad option. The dialog should not allow you to OK the dialog in 
this case.

Seat reservation dialog allows you to reserve a seat for the same player more 
than once. It should not let you OK the dialog if his is the case.

Change seat allocation to only use drop downs - put Computer and Anyone radio 
options in drop down lists.

Support "expanded view" for table that shows players in room so that there is
a column for each statistic. The tooltip is difficult to use and is not 
obvious.

Add, private message, join game and spectate game options when selecting a 
player in the list of players in the room.

Play sound when beep message is received.

All Card Games
==============
Scale the cards and other widgets when the window is resized.

The "How to Play" link doesn't work when a popup blocker is in effect. Find a
way to get around this or alert the user to this fact...After researching this
it appears that there is no way to get around the IE or Google pop-up
blockers but I've managed to display a JavaScript alert if a popup blocker is 
detected.

Consider a "Leave" button so that closing the window is not the only way to 
leave the game; closing the window it not intuitive for all users.

Include a tutorial mode to help novice players learn how to play the game.

The applet currently does not fit well on a screen resolution of 800x600 but
it needs to.

Support named bots or change names from AI to Computer 1, Computer 2 etc.

Hide chat when all opponents are AI players.

Show lag indicator, when there is lag there is no indication why a computer
player is not playing a card.

Show indicator or play sound when it's your turn. The "Playing..." text is not
enough.

Find out why "Connection Reset" exception occurs, especially, when leaving the
game "sitting" for a few minutes...I've added Socket.setKeepAlive(true) so this
should solve it.

Support all messages sent by server. e.g. Last Hand, Bid History.


Hearts
======
Support more than four players

Handle two decks layout a little better

Hand lost message only reports points taken by loser, this message is 
confusing and should be removed as there's no loser in a hand of hearts, the
running totals are enough.

La Pocha
========
How to Play URL points to old GGZ site.

Spades
======


Suaro
=====
Create a custom bid panel similar to what is proposed for Bridge.


Whist
=====
Display dealer up card in a visual way, either during the deal and/or with an
icon during play. At the least, trump should be indicated with an icon during
play.
