<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kggz "<application>KGGZ</application>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kggz;">
  <!ENTITY package "ggz-kde-client">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"> 
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kggz; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Josef</firstname>
<surname>Spillner</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>dr_maux@users.sourceforge.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2002</year>
<holder>Josef Spillner</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2002-09-15</date>
<releaseinfo>0.10.01</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
&kggz; is &kde;'s Core Client for the GGZ Gaming Zone.
This handbook describes how to use it to satisfy everyone's gaming needs.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>GGZ</keyword>
<keyword>GGZ Gaming Zone</keyword>
<keyword>ggz-kde-client</keyword>
<keyword>kggz</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&kggz; is &kde; Core Client for the GGZ Gaming Zone.
It is a central place where people can play games, chat and have much fun.
</para>

<sect1 id="starting">
<title>Launching &kggz;</title>

<para>
You will find the entry <guimenuitem>Games/GGZ Gaming Zone/KGGZ</guimenuitem>. This will
launch &kggz;, and offer you a connection dialog.
Alternatively, it can be launched with a connection URI such as ggz://username@ggz.snafu.de.
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="connecting">
<title>Connecting to a server</title>

<sect1 id="connecting-dialog">
<title>The connection dialog</title>

<para>
This handy dialog manages user/server profiles.
By default, a few connection profiles should be available, but more can be
added of course.
The name of the GGZ server (hostname), username and (when attempting to do a
regular login) password must be given to &kggz;.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="connection-login">
<title>Login</title>

<para>
When the connection succeeds (i.e. GGZ client and server protocol versions
match), the login procedure takes place. If it succeeds as well, the first room
is entered, which will almost always be the Lounge, which has no associated
game. From there, a game-specific room might be searched.
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="chat">
<title>Chat</title>

<sect1 id="chat-chat">
<title>Chatting</title>

<para>
Simply type some text into the input box and press enter to send it over the
wire. For private messages, type /msg (playername) (text). A list of all chat
commands can be fetched by typing /help.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="chat-bot">
<title>Chat bots</title>

<para>
There are chat bots on most GGZ servers. You can speak with them using another
set of commands, which might also be requested from the bot by typing:
(botname) help.
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="games">
<title>GGZ Games</title>

<sect1 id="games-playing">
<title>Playing games</title>

<para>
When being in a game room, the game associated with this room can be played.
Click Launch game in the game menu to launch a one at a new table.
Alternatively, you can join an existing table if it allows this and if there's
a free seat on it. Some games also support spectators, so feel free to watch
the other players anonymously while they play.
</para>

<para>
When launching a new game, a dialog pops up which can be used to control the
maximum number of players and bots. Seat reservations for friend players or
tournaments can also be handled here.
</para>

<para>
When multiple game frontends are available, one can be chosen before the game
is launched. Since they all speak the same protocol, it doesn't matter which
frontend is chosen.
</para>

<para>
Sometimes, games crash or fubar for some odd reason. Such a game can be
cancelled then by clicking at the appropriate menu entry. Some games support
leaving during gameplay, others will be stopped if leaving before they're
finished.
</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kggz;
</para>

<para>
Program copyright:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<title>Developers</title>
<listitem>
<para>Josef Spillner <email>dr_maux@users.sourceforge.net</email></para>
</listitem>

</itemizedlist>

<para>
Documentation copyright 2002 Josef Spillner
<email>dr_maux@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;               <!-- FDL: do not remove -->
&underGPL;               <!-- GPL License -->

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kggz">
<title>How to obtain &kggz;</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>
In order to successfully use &kggz;, you need &kde; 3.x.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

&install.compile.documentation;

</sect1>

</appendix>

&documentation.index;

</book>

