The Gnu Gaming Zone
===================

Welcome to the Gnu Gaming Zone, a multiuser networked gaming
environment.  This project is still in the development phase, and as
such may have some bugs.  It may not even compile or run (although we
do our best to make sure it does).  If you are interested in assisting
with development or in writing server modules for you favorite game,
please send email to ggz-dev@lists.sourceforge.net

At this moment, the server only supports one type of game (spades),
and users can only login anonymously.  In fact the client is simply a
hack of my old NetSpades client.  I am releasing this only so that
people can look at the server architecture and play with it.
Everything is subject to change.

Downloading
===========
You can always download the latest released version of GGZ at
http://ggz.sourceforge.net, or for the absolute bleeding edge you can
check out the sources via anonymous CVS.  Instructions are at our
aforementioned homepage.  You should be aware that the client and the
server are distributed separately.  The server is distributed as
ggz_server-X.X.X.tar.gz and the client as ggz_client-X.X.X.tar.gz
where X.X.X is the version number.


Compiling
=========
You need to have popt, pthreads, and gtk installed in order to compile
GGZ.  Most developers have these, or at least are capable of
installing these.  We will probably not make a binary release unless
people really press for them.  Assuming you are unpacking the sources
in a directory named ~/sources, you can compile the server with the following:

cd ~/sources/ggz_server-X.X.X; configure; make

and similarly for the client:

cd ~/sources/ggz_client-X.X.X; configure; make

where X.X.X is the version number.


Running
=======
You must have access to a running server for the client to be of any
use to you.  The server does not have to be running on your machine,
but we expect that until someone volunteers to run a production server
full-time, you'll probably be running both the client and ther server
locally.

The server is named ggzd and will be created in
~/sources/ggz_server-X.X.X/ggzd.  You *must* run it from that dir
since the path to the spades server is hardcoded.  When you run it,
you *must* specify a port number with the -p option.  For example:

cd ~/sources/ggz_server-X.X.X/ggzd; ./ggzd -p7626

will start the server listening on port 7626.  

The client is named ggz and will be in ~/sources/ggz_client-X.X.X/ggz.
Again, you must run it from that directory (otherwise bad things will
happen)

cd ~/sources/ggz_client-X.X.X/ggz; ./ggz

Remember that only anonymous logins work, and the only game operations
which work are launching and joining.


Bugs
====
Bugs in our code?  Never! :)  But if you do happen to find one, you
can report it at http://sourceforge.net/bugs/?group_id=1325


Please let us know if you have any problems, comments, feedback. etc.


Enjoy!
--The GGZ Development Team
<ggz-dev@lists.sourceforge.net>


