.TH "ggz" "7" "0.0.14" "The GGZ Development Team" "GGZ Gaming Zone"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
ggz \- The GGZ Gaming Zone
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
The GGZ Gaming Zone is a standards-conforming online gaming infrastructure
which provides many applications and games to people who like to play
on the internet or in local networks.
GGZ, how the (recursive) acronym is called, is available for many computer
systems. This document focuses on the installations on Linux, BSD and Unix.
.SH "APPLICATIONS"
.LP
There isn't a single executable named ggz, instead a multitude of programs
is available to the user, and even more which operate on the system level or
are used by developers and administrators.
Users will most likely want to connect to a GGZ server on the internet,
such as \fIggz://live.ggzgamingzone.org\fR, to play games against other people.
\fICore clients\fR are used to perform this task. Functional clients exist
in the form of \fBkggz\fR for the K Desktop Environment (KDE), \fBggz-gnome\fR
and \fBggz-gtk\fR for GNOME or XFCE users, and \fBggz-txt\fR for people who
prefer command-line applications. Of course, the clients are not bound to a
specific desktop, but the choices above will likely be influenced by the level
of integration.
A client under development is the SDL-based \fBvíbora\fR.
.LP
Special clients exist in the form of \fBggzap\fR, a quick-launcher for the
KDE panel, and \fBggz-wrapper\fR which is used for launching GGZ games from
instant messenger applications.
.SH "GAMES"
.LP
Games are usually launched by the GGZ server, with corresponding game clients
running on the user's desktop. Plenty of games are available for GGZ, most
of them coming from the GGZ project itself but several independent game projects
do now provide GGZ support.
Game clients are implemented using multiple toolkits, some of which stem from
certain desktop environments. However, all games work equally well under all
desktops, it's just a matter of personal choice which of them are to be
installed - having all of them is just fine.
.LP
While some GGZ game clients are suited for online gaming only, others also run
locally like normal games happen to do. Those will be found in the desktop's
application menu.
.SH "FILES"
.LP
The following layout can vary from site to site, depending on the completeness
of a GGZ installation and the operating system distribution in use.
It adheres to the File Hierarchy Standard (FHS) as much as possible.
.TP
/usr/bin
GGZ applications, tools, and the games which provide single player mode.
.TP
/usr/lib/ggz(d)
GGZ game clients and servers.
.TP
/usr/share/ggz(d)
Data files for game clients and servers.
.TP
/etc/ggz.modules
Game module registry for game clients.
.TP
/etc/ggzd
Configuration for the GGZ server, including rooms and game types.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.LP
\fIGGZ Design Document and Protocol Reference\fR, available at
\fIhttp://www.ggzgamingzone.org/docs/design/\fR
.LP
\fIGGZ Client-Client Protocol Reference\fR, available at
\fIhttp://www.ggzgamingzone.org/docs/design/clientspec/\fR
.LP
\fIGGZ Server-Server Protocol Reference\fR, available at
\fIhttp://www.ggzgamingzone.org/docs/design/serverspec/\fR
.LP
Freedesktop.org specifications for desktop integration of games and
applications, more information at
\fIhttp://www.freedesktop.org/\fR
.LP
File Hierarchy Standard for unix-derived operating systems, at
\fIhttp://www.pathname.com/fhs/\fR
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The GGZ Development Team
<ggz\-dev@mail.ggzgamingzone.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
kggz(6), ggz-gtk(6), ggz-txt(6), ggz-java(6)
