.TH "ggzwrap" "1" "0.0.14" "The GGZ Development Team" "GGZ Gaming Zone"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
ggzwrap \- GGZ Gaming Zone game client/server wrapper
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
\fBggzwrap\fR
[\fIOPTION\fR...] \fB\-\-exec\fR=\fIGAME\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
This wrapper takes the place of a game client or server, and relays the
control messages between the game and the invoking instance, which is either
the GGZ server \fBggzd\fR or a GGZ core client. One task is to manage
different file descriptors than the ones which are normally used.
The GGZ servers and clients do currently communicate using a socket which is
passed in the environment variable \fIGGZSOCKET\fR, usually being fd 3 on the
server side and fd 103 on the client side, so a call to:
.LP
\fBggzwrap \-\-fdin=3 \-\-fdout=3 \-\-exec=gameserver\fR
.LP
would be equivalent to calling the server directly. However, there are games
which communicate using the standard input/output facilities, so they need a
redirection like:
.LP
\fBggzwrap \-\-fdin=0 \-\-fdout=1 \-\-exec=gameserver\fR
.LP
The GGZ game Muehle uses \fBggzwrap\fR to demonstrate that game clients do
not necessarily need to use any GGZ libraries. The downside is that a lot of
game client functionality will not be available.
Game clients which want to make use of the wrapper must add a command similar
to the one above into the file \fIggz.modules\fR.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-\-fdin=\fR\fIFD\fP
File descriptor on which the game expects its input.
.TP 
\fB\-\-fdout=\fR\fIFD\fP
File descriptor to which the game writes its output.
.TP 
\fB\-\-convert\fR
This option automatically converts strings from network format
to host format (more correctly, from libggz's easysock format to the normal
null-terminated one) for the game server, and back in the other
direction. This will be needed for most games.
.TP 
\fB\-\-exec=\fR\fIGAME\fP
The game client or server to launch as a child process.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBGGZMODE\fR
Set by a GGZ core client to tell games they're running in GGZ mode.
.TP 
\fBGGZSOCKET\fR
File descriptor for the connection to the invoking GGZ core client.
.SH "BUGS"
.LP 
Using \fBggzwrap\fR with game servers has never been really evaluated.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The GGZ Development Team
<ggz\-dev@mail.ggzgamingzone.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
shadowbridge(6), ggz.modules(5), ggz(7)
