.TH "cmd-client" "1" "0.0.14" "The GGZ Development Team" "GGZ Gaming Zone"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
ggz-cmd \- Useful GGZ server control tool
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
\fBggz-cmd\fR \fIHOST\fR \fILOGIN\fR \fIPASSWORD\fR \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
Connects to a GGZ server to execute some command or batch of commands.
.LP
The ggz-cmd tool is a command line client to servers of the GGZ Gaming Zone
which is able to broadcast messages to all rooms of such a
server. It expects a command and the login data to be given, and depending
on the command some optional parameters might be needed as well.
.LP
It can also be used to check the GGZ server uptime, either by emitting error
messages directly, or through \fINagios\fB.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.LP
.TP
\fBannounce\fR \fIMESSAGE\fR
Broadcasts a message from the lobby to all other rooms. This requires
administrative privileges for the GGZ account which is used for the login.
.TP
\fBcheckonline\fR
Reports whether the specified server is currently up and running or not.
The exit code (shell variable $?) is 0 in the case of success, or greater
than 0 otherwise.
.TP
\fBchecknagios\fR
This is similar to checkonline, but failure exit codes match those of
the \fINagios\fR uptime control service. Also, the GGZ account to use
must be a guest account.
This command is only of interest if Nagios is actually used and the GGZ
server should be supervised as part of the network.
.TP
\fBbatch\fR \fIBATCHFILE\fR
This is a pseudo command which can be used to execute multiple commands
one after the other. Each line in \fIBATCHFILE\fR corresponds to one
invocation of \fBggz-cmd\fR, except that only the options are contained,
not the command ggz-cmd itself.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
nagios(8)
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The GGZ Development Team
<ggz\-dev@mail.ggzgamingzone.org>
