.TH "ggzmetaserv" "1" "0.0.14" "The GGZ Development Team" "GGZ Gaming Zone"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
ggzmetaserv \- The GGZ Gaming Zone Metaserver
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
\fBggzmetaserv\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
The metaserver \fBggzmetaserv\fR registers GGZ servers, available game rooms
on them and running games of any type (even non-GGZ games) and makes this
information available to interested clients or to aggregation services such
as \fIMetacle\fR. It has been designed to be as flexible as possible, and
allows to give arbitrary options to all entries.
.LP
The server listens to connections on port 15689, and responds to XML or URI
queries with a list of servers of the requested type.
It should be run by server administrators, for example by inetd or xinetd,
or as a stand-alone daemon to allow updates to the internal database.
.LP
Features include authentication for parts of the internal directory structure,
caching of the current contents for later use, and incremental updates.
.LP
For more information, especially on the protocol format, please have a look
at \fIhttp://www.ggzgamingzone.org/backend/metaserver/\fR.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--configuration\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Use \fIFILE\fR as the configuration file instead of the default,
\fImetaservconf.xml\fR.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--cache\fR=\fIFILE\fR
After each update to the internal data, save all the data to this file. When
the server restarts, this file is read in automatically and thus contains more
recent data than the original configuration file.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--daemon\fR
Runs in daemon mode. This is what is wanted in most cases, since without
this option, only queries on the command line will be responded to.
Also, updates to the data are only possible in daemon mode.
.TP
\fB-D\fR, \fB--debug\fR
Output information about the connections, queries, results and disconnections.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Shows a help screen with a command summary.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
Instead of the default port (15689), use \fIPORT\fR to accept connections.
This option only makes sense in combination with --daemon.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Displays the version number of \fBggzmetaserv\fR.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--verbose\fR
Similar to --debug, however only some information is written out, not
all the transmission content.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--logfile\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Log messages into \fIFILE\fR instead of to the command line.
Special values for \fIFILE\fR are 'stdout' and 'stderr'.
This option only makes sense in combination with --debug or --verbose.
.SH "FILES"
.LP
\fI/usr/share/ggzmetaserv/metaservconf.xml\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
ggzd(6)
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The GGZ Development Team
<ggz\-dev@mail.ggzgamingzone.org>
